{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green255\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs28\lang9 Wood 2001 - Attitude Change\par
\fs22 Review of research from 1996-1998\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Focuses on social influence, information processing, and context of information\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}COMBINES research on 'message based persuasion' and 'studies of social influence'\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Persuasion  = influence appeals use detailed argumentation, without necessarily considering the context of social interaction\par
Social Influence = appeals use information about the position of the source (e.g., from the head of the CDC), delivered in a context in which there can be interaction b/w participants.\par
\b\fs24 Motives for Agreeing with Others\par
\b0\fs22 Why do people want to agree with others? Attitude change is motivated by NORMATIVE concerns over 1. ensuring coherence/favorable evaluation of self, 2. ensuring satisfactory relationships with others given rewards/punishments, 3. understanding the information describing the entity/issue in a persuasive appeal. \par
Thus, most appealing goal is managing self concent, or a coherent self-identity \highlight1 (Cialdini & Trost 1998; Caiken et al., 1996).\highlight0   These 'normative' motives affect the influence of persuasion/attitude change through information processing mechanisms\par
\highlight1 Lundgren & Prislin; 1998 \highlight0 Finds that when participants try to be accurate, they generate relatively balanced pro-con lists that relate to both sides of an issue - when asked to be persuasive, they made arguments that they thought would be aligned with the partner's view - when asked to defend their own position, they chose arguments that supported their OWN view!\par
\b\fs24 Public vs Private Influence\b0\par
\fs22 There are not systematic differences between public and private expressions of judgement. Subjects motives for agreement can have extended effects that GENERALIZE to new contexts, after the original motives are no longer salient or relevant (e.g., Hardees was nearer to our old house than the superior MCDs, so we always went to it, but now that we've moved... we still go to Hardees).\par
\highlight1 Kassin & Kiechel 1996\highlight0  'falsely' accused subjects of negligence when typing data into a computer, but when the subject was uncertain of the negligence (e.g., they were asked to type very quickly), they accepted a witnesses report, and (incorrectly) confessed to the allegation - over half reported that they did (even though they didn't) make a mistake, and over 1/3rd added (false memories) details that support the (false) allegation!\par
Public judgements/attitude expressions are JUST as accurate as private ones, while there are some norms that make it  hard (e.g., politeness norms), there are features that increase accuracy/honesty as well. \highlight1 Cowan & Hodge 1996 \highlight0 - demonstrate that people told to share their reasoning in public, gave especially thoughtful, reasoned responses.\par
\b\fs24 Functional Theories of Persuasion\par
\b0\fs22 Accuracy motives = utilitarian maximization of rewards/minimizing punishments\par
Self-concept motives = defending ego against potential threats and also expressing personal values\par
Social-relation motives = concerns for social adjustment, and obtaining social rewards, but avoiding social punishments (e.g., recycling might be utilitarian... but your anti-climate change friends will roast you for doing so).\par
\b\fs24 Dual Processing Models of Persuasion\b0\par
\fs22 Not highly motivated (e.g., not an issue that involves me directly) or low ability (e.g., unintelligent, or distracted) = attitude judgements are based on EASILY available heuristic information (e.g., such as consensus = correct, thus agree with majority).\par
Highly motivated OR processing information carefully  = attitude judgements based on thoughtful/systematic assessment of relevant information\par
More systematic thought = more confidence in judgements.\par
\highlight1 Pfau 1999\highlight0 ; resistance research focuses on 'inoculation' against 'persuasion attacks'. Inoculation occurs when 'anticipated threats' (e.g., being TOLD that there is a potential attack to your attitude) motivate thoughtful processing to support one's own position or to counter opposing ones.\par
\b\fs24 Motivated Processing/Bias Correction\par
\b0\fs22 Broader values affect and bias processing \highlight1 (Seligman et al., 1996)\highlight0 , as well as participant self-interest (\highlight1 Gina-Sorolla & Chaiken 1997\highlight0 ).\par
\par
\fs28 Stangor 2001 - Changing Racial Beliefs using Social Consensus\par
\fs22 Provided feedback to european americans that OTHER PEOPLE they know hold different beliefs about african americans than they originally assumed these people held.\par
In response to this social pressure, they changed their own beliefs, and these changes are EVEN STRONGER when originating from a known ingroup vs a known outgroup/unrelated. Results persisted for at least 1 week. FURTHERMORE, when providing feedback that others AGREE with the racial sterotypes a subject may have, they were more RESISTANT to belief change afterwards. Essentially - learning about the racial beliefs of others can either produce or inhibit attitude change.\par
Stereotype formation research has previously focused on 'intergroup' contact (e.g., blacks and whites). This current research focuses on if intragroup contact affects stereotype formation, and how.\par
\b\fs24 Method\par
\b0\fs22 23 european americans (white) were asked to estimate the % of African Americans that posses each of 19 sterotype traits (9 positive, 10 negative).\par
ALSO were asked to estimate using the same scale, how OTHER students at the university they went to felt on those traits.\par
Then, 1 week later, they were given FALSE CONSENSUS, either HIGH (a greater % of students held favorable beliefs, 20%~ were added to their estimates of positive traits, and the same removed to estimates of negative traits), or LOW (20% added to negative traits, same removed to positive traits). \par
Then, asked about SURPRISE levels (to ensure that the consensus information was attended to). Finally, participants reported their beliefs again on the original scale.\par
\b\fs24 Results - Experiment 1\par
\b0\fs22 Positive and negative subscales were highly correlated, and stereotype valence was significant. Social influence ended up working - those who got positive feedback had more positive and less negative stereotypes. Those who got negative feedback had more negative BUT NOT FEWER POSITIVE sterotypes!\par
\b\fs24 Method + Results - Experiment 2\par
\b0\fs22 They were given the same procedure... however when given information, they were told that the information was either from an ingroup (students @ the same college) or outgroup (students @ rival college).\par
The influence of consensus feedback was greater when coming from an ingroup vs outgroup source. Information about ingroup opinions can change attitudes on different but related measures (overall attitudes towards african americans).\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs24 Method + Results - Experiment 3\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs22 Same procedure as 1, HOWEVER, after measuring their 'surprise', they were given data about the "actual" characteristics of African Americans ("as determined by scientific research"). This lets them test what degree of attitdue change would occur if their beliefs were consensually validated (added or removed ~25%, so it was even MORE polarized than they initially got the feedback from the ingroup on!)\par
Asked again for surprise next, then asked to do a final measure of their % estimation of these traits.\par
\b\fs24 Discussion\par
\b0\fs22 These results are persistent, it is EASIER to produce sterotype change in positive than the negative direction. Social desirability however is likely to affect the negative sterotype formation. This also allows people to draw inferences without interacting w/ individual group members, which makes sterotype change more likely.\par
Lying to people to change their minds isn't very ethical... HOWEVER, people suffer often from "pluralistic ignorance", \highlight1 (Miller & McFarland 1991) \highlight0  [SPECIAL NOTE - Can we test to see if various 'providing scientific feedback' has legs vs. social consensus on our issues? how would it work if we mixed in some very obvious scientific consensus results (gravity affects things, water boils at lower temps when lower pressure, etc.)\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 